--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: B\xC3\xBCcher, Werbeplakat f\xC3\xBCr die Leningrader Abteilung des staatlichen Verlags GOSISDAT (Ausschnitt), 1924, kolorierte Fotografie, 20,4 x 29,2 cm; promDILPS, Universit\xC3\xA4t Leipzig, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Universit\xC3\xA4t Leipzig"
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: Konstruktion Nr. 105 auf grauem Grund (Ausschnitt), 1920, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 102 x 70 cm; EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: Komposition Nr. 68 (Ausschnitt), 1918, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 71 x 62,3 cm;EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: Lunch (Obed), aus der Serie \"Factory Canteen\" (Ausschnitt), 1929, Fotografie / Silbergelatineabzug, 23,5 x 26 cm, Moskau, Archiv A. Rodchenko und V. Stepanova; EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte "
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: R\xC3\xA4umliche Konstruktion Nr. 12: Oval im Oval, aus der Serie \"Reflektierende Fl\xC3\xA4chen\" (Ausschnitt), 1920/21 (Rekonstruktion von Alexander Lawrentjew 1989), Furnier, 61 x 83,7 x 47 cm, Moskau, Privatbesitz; promDILPS, Universit\xC3\xA4t Leipzig, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Universit\xC3\xA4t Leipzig"
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: Konstruktion auf rot-braunem und gr\xC3\xBCnem Grund Nr. 94 (Ausschnitt), 1919, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 74,5 x 64 cm; EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: Treppe (Ausschnitt), 1930, Fotografie / Silbergelatine; DadaWeb, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln"
- "Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko: Maquette f\xC3\xBCr \"War ot the Future\", Illustration f\xC3\xBCr das Magazin \"Za Rubezhom (Abroad)\" (Ausschnitt), 1930, Fotografie / cut-and-pasted printed papers on paper, 51 x 35 cm, Berlin, Galerie Berinson; EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
title: Rodtschenko
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
subtitle: 
date: 2013/08/03
repeat: 2 6 8
teaser: An exhibition in Hamburg is presenting Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko as a designer of a new time.
collection: 37533
---
An exhibition in Hamburg is presenting Alexander Michailowitsch Rodtschenko as a designer of a new time. The October Revolution 1917 caused profound political and economical changes. In this on scientific focussed world, the constructivism of Rodtschenko was in line with the spirit of times. 

*"Rodtschenko. Eine neue Zeit":http://www.buceriuskunstforum.de/ausstellung/rodtschenko-eine-neue-zeit/?cHash=5c0e6abd03853188b7b2b8a3a85d9a20, 8 June to 15 September 2013, Bucerius Kunst Forum, Hamburg*
