---
layout: series
title: Eerie truth
subtitle: Duane Hanson and Gregory Crewdson
author: Hendrikje Hüneke
date: 2010/12/09
descriptions:
- 'Hanson, Duane: Frau mit Einkaufswagen (Detail), 1970, Fiberglas / Polyester / bemalt / Kleider, Sammlung Ludwig, Aachen; Datenbank Diathek online, Technische Universität Dresden, Institut für Kunstgeschichte, Dresden '
- 'Crewdson, Gregory: Teil der Serie „Beneath the Roses“ (Ausschnitt), 2003-2005, Fotografie, 144.8 x 223.5 cm; DadaWeb, Universität zu Köln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Köln'
- 'Hanson, Duane: Der Maurer (Detail), 1972, Polyester / Fiberglas / bemalt / Kleidungsstücke / Arbeitsgeräte, Sprengelmuseum, Hannover; Diathek online, Technische Universität Dresden, Institut für Kunstgeschichte, Dresden'
- 'Crewdson, Gregory: Teil der Seria „Twilight“ (Ausschnitt), 1998-2002, Fotografie, 121.9 x 152.4 cm; DadaWeb, Universität zu Köln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Köln'
- 'Hanson, Duane: Florida Shopper (Detail), 1937,  Polyesterharz / Fiberglas / bemalt, Los Angeles; HeidICON - Europäische Kunstgeschichte, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität, Universitätsbibliothek, Heidelberg'
- 'Crewdson, Gregory: Teil der Serie „Twilight“ (Ausschnitt), 1998-2002, Fotografie, 121.9 x 152.4 cm Datenbank DadaWeb, Universität zu Köln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Köln'
- 'Hanson, Duane: Woman Derelict (Detail), 1973, Polyesterharz / Fiberglas / bemalt, Zentralmuseum, Utecht; HeidICON - Europäische Kunstgeschichte, Ruprecht-Karls-Universität, Universitätsbibliothek, Heidelberg'
- 'Crewdson, Gregory: Teil der Serie „Dream House“ (Ausschnitt), 2002, Fotografie, 73.7 x 111.8 cm; DadaWeb, Universität zu Köln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Köln'
---
Using different materials for their art, Hanson and Crewdson have a lot in common too. Hansons life-sized sculptures from epoxide resin, polyester resin ore bronze look amazing realistic. Much more important is, that they deliver inside into a person's lot in life. People are showen in their everyday lives with their hopes, broken dreams and lonlyness. Equally the photographs by Crewdson activate a depressing moode and are able to tell tragedys by showing just one selected moment.

*Duane Hanson und Gregory Crewdson. Unheimliche Wirklichkeiten, 27. Nov. 2010 - 6. März 2011, Museum Frieder Burda, Baden-Baden*
