---
layout: default
title: "FAQ: Use of single tools"
legacy_url: http://prometheus-bildarchiv.de/index.php?id=49&L=1&skin=
---
h2. <%= page_title %>

*How I can download an image from prometheus?*
With a repeated click you can enlarge the image you found in the image archive and then store it onto your computer by right mouse click.

*I want to show images from prometheus on my private web site in the Internet. May I do that?
For the most part, no. You may show images without copyrights only on your web site.
This affects, however, only the images, on which the utilization rights of the artist's work (starting 70 years after the death of the artist) are not touched anymore or the ancillary copyright of a photographer on the photograph (off 50 year after its appearance) is not affected.
Otherwise the rights have to be obtained from the authors and/or the VG picture-art always.

*Can I use image files from prometheus for the printing of my doctoral thesis?*
For the most part, no. You may use images with no copyrights only.
This affects, however, only the images, on which the utilization rights of the artist's work (starting 70 years after the death of the artist) are not touched anymore or the ancillary copyright of a photographer on the photograph (off 50 year after appearance) is not affected.
Otherwise the rights have to be obtained from the authors and/or the VG picture-art always.

*Can I use image files from prometheus for examinations, term papers and M.A. theses?*
Yes, you may, as long as they are exclusively used for your unpublished studies.

*I like to search in google. What are the disadvantages?*
Most images in google have a bad quality or the legend with the images is not correct.

*Why is it that in some domains many images can be found in prometheus, but not in others?*
prometheus itself does not have any images, it is dependent on the image data bases that supply the images. In spite of the existing variety there are still many gaps. If you have relevant images or know an important image data base, please inform our "office":mailto:info@prometheus-bildarchiv.de! we will be glad to include them.

*Why is the quality of the images so different?*
The quality of the images is only as good as they come from the image data bases from the institutes, research projects, museums and archives. If you come across a very bad image please inform the responsible project person by mail.

*What is a work folder?*
In a work folder you can file and sort out images to further use in a presentation. The work folder can be used online only with a personalized account exclusively.

*What is an online presentation?*
An online presentation is a presentation possibility for images. It can be utilized only with images from the work folder. Your own images can not be used. The online presentation can be used only online with a personalized account.

*What is the projektor + editor?*
The projektor + editor is an independent program, that can be downloaded to use freely for the presentation of images in lectures and in class.
"tools - programs":<%=r 'tools/programs/projektor-editor' %>
The projektor shows the lecture which was created in the editor with single picture set-ups, direct selection, selection of text and enlargements.
With the editor downloaded images can be collected and sorted like on a light-table. This is possible also without a personal account.
Infosheet "Generation of an image presentation with editor and projector" - "download: tools - reference manuals (eikonline 3)":<%=r 'tools/manuals/eikonline-3' %>

*How can I establish a presentation in an off-line way?*
You can establish a presentation with the "projektor + editor":<%=r 'tools/programs/projektor-editor' %> in an off-line way. You can download images from prometheus and establish a presentation with the projector. Here you can also include your own images.
You can establish a presentation also with Power-Point or other presentation programs off-line. For this purpose download the images and add them to the program. Here you can also include your own images.

*What is ILIAS?*
ILIAS is an online study- and teaching-platform. With ILIAS teachers can create E-Learning course materials, establish online tests for examinations and carry out virtual classes or lectures. The access is possible from every internet-capable computer. The registration for a guest account can be applied for online. If you need further rights, please turn to our "office":mailto:info@prometheus-bildarchiv.de.
