---
layout: default
title: "FAQ: Utilisation of the prometheus image archive"
legacy_url: http://prometheus-bildarchiv.de/index.php?id=46&L=1&skin=
---
h2. <%= page_title %>

# "How can I use the image archive?":#use
# "Can anyone use the image archive?":#anyone
# "As an institution, how can we use the image archive?":#institution
# "What is a Campus account?":#campus
# "Can I use the image archive at home?":#home
# "What can I do when the access gets denied in spite of a personalized account and the right pin?":#denied
# "The campus account is denied in spite of the activation of the IP-field. What can I do?":#ip
# "I am not able to log-in to prometheus, although my college has a campus account according to the list of licensees. What is responsible for that problem?":#login

h3(#use). How can I use the image archive?

The image archive can be used with an inexpensive license.

h3(#anyone). Can anyone use the image archive?

You can use the image archive via a single license for 20 €/year, which can be payed via the e-payment service Click&Buy.
It's also possible to pay the amount on account. In this case an additional fee of 15 € will be calculated.

*Attention!*
Please check our "list of licensees":<%=p 'institution/licensed' %>. Possibly you belong to one of the institutions listed. This enables you to apply for a free account for the image archive.

In both cases you can register "here":<%=p 'signup' %>.

h3(#institution). As an institution, how can we use the image archive?

You can either apply for an institute license or a campus license.
The fee is based on the size of your institute. ("license fees":<%=r 'license/fees' %>)
To receive a license please contact the Hochschulbibliothekszentrum (HBZ). ("inhalte@hbz-nrw.de":mailto:inhalte@hbz-nrw.de). For an IP-connection and the authorization of the administration to use your personalized account please contact our office. ("info@prometheus-bildarchiv.de":mailto:info@prometheus-bildarchiv.de)

h3(#campus). What is a Campus account?

The IP-address of the respective computer of the University is activated so research can be done online.

h3(#home). Can I use the image archive at home?

Yes the image archive can be used either with a personalized account with a "user name" and a pin or you can log on to the University network and then use the campus account to log-in the image archive.

h3(#denied). What can I do when the access gets denied in spite of a personalized account and the right pin?

First you need to check if your user name and your pin is correct. Did you watch the case sensitivity?
If you do not remember your pin, please use the 'Forgot your password?'-Button: "Reset password":<%=p 'password' %>.

Furthermore make sure that your browser accepts cookies.

In case you are using *Internet-Explorer* you can adjust it with Extras - Internetoptions - Data Security - Accept all cookies.
In case you are using *Mozilla Firefox* you can click on Extras - Adjustments - Data Security - Cookies - Accept cookies.
In case you are using *Opera* you can click on Extras - Adjustments - Advanced - Cookies - Accept Cookies.

h3(#ip). The campus account is denied in spite of the activation of the IP-field. What can I do?

Please check the activated IP with our office.
Ask your computer center if there is an intermediary Proxy-server. If so, have it activated also and please, pass on the information to our "office":mailto:info@prometheus-bildarchiv.de.

h3(#login). I am not able to log-in to prometheus, although my college has a campus account according to the list of licensees. What is responsible for that problem?

That could be due to either your working on a computer that is not part of the college network, for example your own computer at home or possible problems occurred during the release of the IP addresses of your college.

In the first case you can get a personalized account via the "Sign up"-button on our homepage. In the latter case please inform the administrators at your college computer center. Please refer to our "help page":<%=p 'help/login#problems' %> for additional information.
