--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Corinth, Lovis: Paddel-Petermannchen, 1902, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Hannover, Nieders\xC3\xA4chsisches Landesmuseum; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin"
- "Feininger, Lyonel: Segelregatta, 1929, Detroit, Institute of Art Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden"
- "Jawlensky, Alexej von: Sturmkiefern bei Prerow, 1911, \xC3\x96l auf Karton, M\xC3\xBCnchen, Galerie Raimund Thomas; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden"
- "Kleine, C\xC3\xA9sar: Ahrenshoop II, 1909, \xC3\x96l auf Malpappe, Privatbesitz; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden"
- "Munch, Edvard: Badende M\xC3\xA4nner, 1907, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Helsinki, Ateneum Art Museum; HeidICON - Europ\xC3\xA4ische Kunstgeschichte, Ruprecht-Karls-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Universit\xC3\xA4tsbibliothek, Heidelberg"
- "Pechstein, Max: Hafen (Leba), 1922, o.O.; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden"
- "Schmidt-Rottluff, Karl: Sommerabend am See, 1934, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Chemnitz, St\xC3\xA4dtische Kunstsammlungen; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden"
- "Werefkin, Marianne: Die Steilk\xC3\xBCste von Ahrenshoop, 1911, Tempera auf Pappe, Ascona, Fondazione Marianne Werefkin; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden"
title: Summer guests
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
subtitle: Artists at the Baltic Sea
date: 2011/07/31
teaser: Already at the beginning of the 20th century the flat and tender landscape of the Baltic Sea was a calm antipole to the fast and turbulent life in the city.
collection: 27700
---
Already at the beginning of the 20th century the flat and tender landscape of the Baltic Sea was a calm antipole to the fast and turbulent life in the city. Many artists of the Classic Modernism satisfy their desire for nativeness in Mecklenburg and Pommern and were inspired by the landscape and their residents. Especially to artists who were defamed as “degenerated”, the region became a retreat.
An exhibition in Schwerin is showing a representative overview with artworks by Marianne von Werefkin, Alexej Jawlensky, Edvard Munch, Lyonel Feininger, Erich Heckel and Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, as well as the Dadaists Hans Arp, Sophie Taeuber-Arp, Kurt Schwitters and Hannah Höch.


*"Sommergäste. Von Arp bis Werefkin. Klassische Moderne in Mecklenburg und Pommern":http://www.museum-schwerin.de/austellungen/kunstsammlungen-schwerin/ausstellungsvorschau-5/, 22. Juli bis 23. Oktober, Staatliches Museum Schwerin*
