--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1938-41, 20,1 x 25,5 cm, Los Angeles; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1938-41, 16,8 x 19,3 cm, Los Angeles; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1938-41, 17 x 15,3 cm, Los Angeles; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1938-41, Los Angeles; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1938-41, Los Angeles; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1938-41, 17,4 x 25,6 cm, Los Angeles; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1941, 15,7 x 17 cm, Los Angeles; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Walker Evans. Subway Portrait, Ausschnitt, Fotografie, 1938-41, 16,9 x 17,8 cm, Los Angeles; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
title: "Evans\xE2\x80\x98 Subway-Portraits"
author: Bettina Pfleging
subtitle: Hidden Camera
repeat: 1 4 7
date: 2014/08/31
teaser: Walker Evans, one of the most important photographers of the 20th century, considered a pioneer of documentary black and white photography.
collection: 41078
---
Walker Evans, one of the most important photographers of the 20th century, considered a pioneer of documentary black and white photography. His paintings are clearly structured, objectively and accurately. In his project of the New York subway portraits he worked from 1938 to 1941 with a hidden camera under his coat, because photography is prohibited in the subway. The authentic portraits show emotions of people who are lost in their own thoughts. 
The retrospective in Berlin shows over 200 original photos of the years 1928 to 1974: an insight into the entire creative period of the American, not only on issues of American life.

"*„Walker Evans. A Life’s Work“*(retrospective)":http://www.berlinerfestspiele.de/en/aktuell/festivals/gropiusbau/programm_mgb/mgb14_evans/ausstellung_evans/veranstaltungsdetail_86998.php
25 July to 9 November 2014, Martin-Gropius-Bau, Berlin
