--- 
descriptions: 
- "Im letzten Jahr ist eine Vorzeichnung zu dem verschollenen Gem\xC3\xA4lde \xE2\x80\x9EDeutschland ein Winterm\xC3\xA4rchen\xE2\x80\x9C von dem Maler George Grosz aus dem Jahr 1918 aufgetaucht."
- "Grosz, George: Der Agitator Standort (Detail), 1928, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 108 x 81 cm, Amsterdam, Stedelijk Museum; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
- "Grosz, George: Silence! Maul halten und weiter dienen Material (Detail), 1935-36, Fotolithographie, Berlin, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, Kupferstichkabinett; HeidICON - Europ\xC3\xA4ische Kunstgeschichte, Ruprecht-Karls-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Universit\xC3\xA4tsbibliothek, Heidelberg "
- "Grosz, George: Grosz als Clown und Variet\xC3\xA9girl (Detail), 1958, Collage, 30,5 x 27 cm, o.O.; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin"
- "Grosz, George: aus der Mappe \"Ecce Homo\": D\xC3\xA4mmerung (Detail), 1922, Aquarell, Berlin, Moskau, Staatliche Museen des Moskauer Kremls; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin"
- "Grosz, George: Hintergrund: Der Lebensbaum, Phase 2 und 3 (Detail), 1927, Druckgrafik, Berlin, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, Kupferstichkabinett; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
- "Grosz, George: Kraft und Anmut (Detail), 1922, Aquarell/Tusche, 53,3 x 44 cm, K\xC3\xB6ln, Museum Ludwig; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
- "Grosz, George: Deutschland, ein Winterm\xC3\xA4rchen (Detail), 1918, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, verschollen; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
layout: series
title: Grosz
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
subtitle: Germany a Winter's Tale
date: 2011/09/17
teaser: "Last year a preparatory drawing of the missing canvas \xE2\x80\x9EGermany a Winter's Tale\xE2\x80\x9C of George Grosz from 1918 appeared."
collection: 28004
---
Last year a preparatory drawing of the missing canvas „Germany a Winter's Tale“ of George Grosz from 1918 appeared. The main motifs are already arranged: In the centre an officer is sitting behind a table with sharp cutlery in front of roast, beer, local newspaper and cigar. Beneath the „holy types of that time“ (W. Wolfradt) are pictured: a priest, a general and a professor with their attributes, with bible and cross, rapier and decoration as well as Goethe-tome and cane.

The drawing is now presented for the first time as part of a retrospective with water colours, drawings and collages.

*"George Grosz. Germany a Winter's Tale. Water colours, drawings, collages. 1908-1958":http://www.maxernstmuseum.de/fachthema/deutsch/Ausstellungen/george+grosz.htm, September 11th to December 18th 2011, Max Ernst Museum, Brühl*
