--- 
descriptions: 
- "Thron des Zaren Michail Fjodorowitsch Romanow, 16./17. Jh.,Gold / Edelsteine / Perlen / Holz / Stoff, Moskau, Museen des Kreml; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Pjotr Gerassimowitsch Sharkow: Gro\xC3\x9Ff\xC3\xBCrstin Katharina Pawlowna (Ausschnitt), 1790/95, Mischtechnik, 8,1 x 6,4 cm, St. Petersburg, Schloss Pawlowsk; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Anonym: Prinzessin Sophie Doroth\xC3\xA9e von W\xC3\xBCrttemberg (Ausschnitt), 1769/71, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 78,5 x 65 cm, St. Petersburg, Schloss Pawlowsk; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Johann Heinrich Dannecker: Herzogin Dorothee Sophie von W\xC3\xBCrttemberg (Ausschnitt), um 1798-1800, Carrara-Marmor, Gatschina, Schlo\xC3\x9Fmuseum; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Reichsapfel des Zaren Michail Fjodorowitsch Romanow, 16. Jh., Gold / Silber / Edelsteine / Perlen / Email, Moskau, Museen des Kreml; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Anonym: B\xC3\xBCste der Gro\xC3\x9Ff\xC3\xBCrstin Maria Fjodorowna, 1857, Porzellan, 29 cm, St. Petersburg, Schloss Pawlowsk; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Alexander Roslin: Gro\xC3\x9Ff\xC3\xBCrstin Maria Fjodorowna (Ausschnitt), 1776/78, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 245 x 167 cm, St. Petersburg, Schloss Pawlowsk; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "George Dawe: Zarin Dawe (Ausschnitt), 1810/20, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 91,5 x 63 cm, St. Petersburg, Schloss Pawlowsk; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
layout: series
title: "The Romanows and the house of W\xC3\xBCrttemberg "
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
subtitle: 
date: 2014/01/18
repeat: 1 3 6
teaser: "An exhibition in Stuttgart has its focus on five women, who consolidate the relationship between the Tsar familiy Romanow and the house of W\xC3\xBCrttemberg."
collection: 39263
---
An exhibition in Stuttgart has its focus on five women, who consolidate the relationship between the Tsar familiy Romanow and the house of Württemberg. Princess Sophie Dorothee married the Grand duke and Tsar Paul and went to Russia as Maria Fjodorowna. With Katharina Pawlowna and Olga Nikolajewna two Russians came to Stuttgart, the first as wife of King Wilhelm I, the other as wife of King Karl. In the next generation Princess Charlotte married as Helena Pawlowna the Grand duke Michael and the niece of Olga, Wera Konstantinowna, married the duke Eugen of Württemberg, after spending her childhood at the court of Stuttgart.

*"Im Glanz der Zaren. Die Romanows, Württemberg und Europa":http://www.landesmuseum-stuttgart.de/ausstellungen/im-glanz-der-zaren/, 5 October 2013 to 23 March 2014, Altes Schloss, Stuttgart* 
