---
layout: default
title: The image archive
legacy_url: http://prometheus-bildarchiv.de/index.php?id=6&L=1&skin=&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=&tx_ttnews[pointer]=
---
h2. <%= page_title %>

*prometheus is a digital image archive for Art and Cultural Sciences.*
p r o m e t h e u s   enables the convenient search for images  on a common user interface within different image archives, variable databases from institutes, research facilities and museums.



Download  "prometheus Flyer (PDF, 689 KB)!":<%=r 'files/text/prometheus_flyer_07.pdf' %>


h5. The licence model of prometheus

p r o m e t h e u s   is a non-commercial image archive. Licence fees are charged exclusively for operating our services and the continuous development of our technologies.
Additional information at „ "Registration and Licenses":<%=r 'licences/index' %> "


h5. Prometheus can be used for scientific work.

p r o m e t h e u s may be used in a variety of ways. Access to prometheus is possible with a license issued either to a campus or to an institute.  Private parties may apply for a personal account.
Additional information at „ "Registration and licenses":<%=r 'licences/index' %> ”.


See “ "Directory of License Holders":<%=r 'licences/licence-holders' %> ” to check if your institute has already signed up.


h5. Individual databases can be connected to prometheus

To connect an individual database and to use the advantages of prometheus, find additional information at


» "Information for database providers":<%=r 'databases/index' %>



For smaller image collections we offer the image data base DILPS

Additional information about  » "DILPS":<%=r 'databases/promdilps' %>
