--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Eduardo Chillida: M\xC3\xBAsica de las esferas I, 1953, Eisen, 13 x 16,5 x 12,5 cm, Madrid, Privatsammlung; DILPS Bilddatenbank Udk, Universit\xC3\xA4t der K\xC3\xBCnste, Berlin "
- "Eduardo Chillida: Peine de los vientos, 1976, Corten-Stahl, ca. 215 x 177 x 185 cm, San Sebastian; Virtuelle Diathek, Universit\xC3\xA4t Hamburg, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Hamburg "
- "Eduardo Chillida: M\xC3\xB9sica callada I, 1955, Eisen, 63,5 x 150 x 56 cm, Basel, \xC3\x96ffentliche Kunstsammlung; DILPS Bilddatenbank Udk, Universit\xC3\xA4t der K\xC3\xBCnste, Berlin "
- "Eduardo Chillida: Yunque de sue\xC3\xB1os VII , 1954-1959, Eisen / Holz, 100 \xC3\x97 34 \xC3\x97 28,5 cm, Frankfurt am Main, St\xC3\xA4del; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden "
- "Eduardo Chillida: Berlin, 1999, Stahl, 6m hoch, Bundeskanzleramt, Berlin; Diathek online, Universit\xC3\xA4t Trier, Fach Kunstgeschichte, Trier"
- "Eduardo Chillida: Oxido 42, 1979, Ton / Schamotte mit Kupferoxidzeichnung, Sammlung des K\xC3\xBCnstlers; DILPS Bilddatenbank Udk, Universit\xC3\xA4t der K\xC3\xBCnste, Berlin "
- "Eduardo Chillida: Lurrak (Ausschnitt), 1980, Lithographie, 160 x 120 cm, Kunsthalle St. Annen; digiCULT Museen, digiCULT, Kiel "
- "Eduardo Chillida: Peine del viento XVI, 1990, Stahl, 230 x 189 x 120 cm, Sammlung des K\xC3\xBCnstlers; DILPS Bilddatenbank Udk, Universit\xC3\xA4t der K\xC3\xBCnste, Berlin "
title: Eduardo Chillida
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
subtitle: 
date: 2012/02/02
teaser: "The artist Eduardo Chillida (1924 \xE2\x80\x93 2002), born in the Spanish Basque region, is described as an exceptional artist."
collection: 30146
---
The artist Eduardo Chillida (1924 – 2002), born in the Spanish Basque region, is described as an exceptional artist. After a cancelled study of architecture, he started working with clay and gypsum and from 1949 he made sculptures of metal. Over the years other materials like timber and alabaster got important for his work. But Chillida worked as a graphic artist too, used different printing technologies and created artist books. 
The Picasso-Museum is presenting the multi-faceted work with over 100 exhibits. Not least the preliminary studies to the great „Peine de los vientos“ at San Sebastián, make the exhibition especially interesting.

*"Eduardo Chillida":http://www.kunstmuseum-picasso-muenster.de/ausstellungen/aktuelle_ausstellungen/eduardo_chillida.html?L=1, 28th  January to 22th April, Kunstmuseum Pablo Picasso, Münster*
