---
layout: default
title: Executive board and members of staff
legacy_url: http://prometheus-bildarchiv.de/index.php?id=68&L=1&skin=&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=&tx_ttnews[pointer]=
---
h2. <%= page_title %>

"PD Dr. Holger Simon":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,jqnigt0ukoqpBwpk/mqgnp0fg (Chair)
"Prof. Dr. Dorothee Haffner":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,fqtqvjgg0jchhpgtBjvy/dgtnkp0fg (Deputy chair)
"Dr. Stefan Brenne":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,Uvghcp0DtgppgBiguejkejvg0wpk/ikguugp0fg (Treasurer)
"PD Dr. Norbert Eschbach":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,Pqtdgtv0GuejdcejBiguejkejvg0wpk/ikguugp0fg (Deputy treasurer)
"Lisa Dieckmann M.A.":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,nkuc0fkgemocppBwpk/mqgnp0fg (Secretary)
"Dr. Ute Verstegen":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,wvg0xgtuvgigpBvjgqnqikg0wpk/gtncpigp0fg (Assessor)
"Dr. Bettina Pfleging":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,dgvvkpc0rhngikpiBwpk/mqgnp0fg (Assessor)
"PD Dr. Sigrid Ruby":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,Ukitkf0TwdaBiguejkejvg0wpk/ikguugp0fg (Assessor)
"Sabine Scheele M.A.":mailto:javascript:linkTo_UnCryptMailto('ocknvq,wvg0xgtuvgigpBvjgqnqikg0wpk/gtncpigp0fg (Assessor)

h4. Members of staff

*Current*
Sebastian Beßler (Cologne, computer engineering)
Lisa Dieckmann M.A. (Managing Director of the prometheus project, Institute of Art History, University of Cologne, computer engineering)
Arne Eilermann (Cologne, computer engineering)
Theresa Nisters (Cologne, office)
Sabine Scheele (Giessen, webdesign)
Silvia Stark M.A. (Cologne, office)
Katja Vierk (Cologne, Office)
Dipl.-Bibl. Jens Wille (Cologne, computer engineering)

*Former*
Thomas Bodo Block (Cologne, computer engineering)
Ben Burkhard (Cologne, computer engineering)
Rebeca Ehses (Cologne, office)
Dr. Meta Friese (Cologne, office)
Julia Iwanowa M.A. (Cologne, computer engineering)
Ansgar Lorenz (Cologne, office)
Gerd Mörsch M.A. (Cologne, office)
Dipl.-Bibl. Thomas Müller (Cologne, computer engineering)
Dr. Jürgen Nemitz (Cologne/Marburg,  computer engineering)
Johanna Neumann (Cologne,  computer engineering)
Dipl. Des. Dirk Schuster (Dessau, design)
