---
layout: default
title: The image archive
legacy_url: http://prometheus-bildarchiv.de/index.php?id=6&L=1&skin=&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=&tx_ttnews[pointer]=
---
h2. <%= page_title %>

*prometheus is a digital image archive for Art and Cultural Sciences.* prometheus enables the convenient search for images on a common user interface within different image archives, variable databases from institutes, research facilities and museums.

At a glance: Download our "prometheus Flyer (PDF)":<%=r 'files/text/prometheus_flyer_07.pdf' %>!

h3. Tags

h4(#searching). Searching - Search in multiple image databases within one surface

Currently you are able to search in <span id="source_count">nearly 60</span> art historian, design, architectural, theological, historian and archaeological image databases with <span id="record_count">over 730,000</span> images in total. The prometheus archive offers you a simple search that searches in all fields for your query terms or an advanced search that allows you to combine your search criteria in different ways or to pick certain databases for a more selective search.

h4(#collecting). Collecting - Assemble your topical images in one place

You can store your images which you need to prepare your courses, presentations or research into an image collection. The image collection can be expanded at all times with new images and your access is independent from your location. Additional information to characterize your image collection (description, keywords) or information concerning research literature or relevant web links can be added. Above all you have the possibility to share your collection with all users or only with single users so that they are able to have a closer look at your collection or even to collaborate with you.

h4(#presenting). Presenting - Present your assembled images location-independently

You can integrate the images which you found or assembled in an image collection in a presentation. The layout of the slides is flexible, the presentation can be started easily in any browser. You are also allowed to download the images to integrate them in your local presentation program.

h4(#publishing). Publishing - Inform yourself about copyrights and publish images

Next to any image you will find a link which leads you to the copyright information of the particular image. There you can research what is necessary to obtain the consent of the copyright-holder. In some cases there will be the opportunity to obtain the permission for publication directly through prometheus.

In order to use the images for research and education, prometheus cooperates with the "VG Bild-Kunst":http://bildkunst.de/ which allows both access to the images of the different databases through prometheus and the utilization of the images for research and education (see "» Copyrights and Publication":<%=r 'copyright' %>).

h4(#researching). Researching - Search, collect, annotate, connect images and mark motives

In every area you will find tools that will help to alleviate your work and research: e.g. selective search with the aid of choosing certain databases and combined search fields, the structured and annotated image collection or the research work which you approved for collaboration.

In the near future, prometheus will also integrate a tool that will allow the direct research on images through connections and image annotations within a research group.

h3. The license model of prometheus

prometheus is a non-commercial image archive. License fees are charged exclusively for operating our services and the continuous development of our technologies.
Additional information on "» Registration and Licenses":<%=r 'license' %>.

h3. Individual databases can be connected to prometheus

To connect an individual database and to use the advantages of prometheus, find additional information on "» Information for database providers":<%=r 'databases' %>.

For smaller image collections we offer the image data base DILPS.
Additional information about "» DILPS":<%=r 'databases/promdilps' %>.
