--- 
layout: default
title: Members of staff
legacy_url: http://prometheus-bildarchiv.de/index.php?id=509&L=1&skin=&tx_ttnews[tt_news]=&tx_ttnews[pointer]=
---
h2. <%= page_title %>
<div style="width: 310px; float: left">
!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/Dieckmann.jpg'
%>(Dr. des. Lisa Dieckmann_Executive)!!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/Nisters.jpg'
%>(Theresa Nisters M.A._office)!!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/Stark.jpg'
%>(Silvia Stark M.A._office)!
!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/Hilgert.jpg'
%>(Bettina Hilgert B.A._office)!!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/HeHue.jpg'
%>(Hendrikje Hüneke M.A._image series)!!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/Trump.jpg'
%>(Denise Trump B.A._office)!
!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/Kochend.png'
%>(Dipl.-Inform. Jörg Koch_IT)!!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/PflegingVersion.jpg'
%>(Dr. Bettina Pfleging_Social Media Marketing)!!(bordered-image)<%=r 'files/blog/Wille.jpg'
%>(Dipl.-Bibl. Jens Wille_IT)!
</div>

<div style="text-align: justify; width: 400px; float: left">
* Dr. des. Lisa Dieckmann (Executive of the project prometheus at the Department of Art History of the University of Cologne, Art History/IT, "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Theresa Nisters M.A. (Cologne, Office)
* Silvia Stark M.A. (Cologne, Office)
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
* Bettina Hilgert B.A. (Cologne, Office)
* Hendrikje Hüneke M.A. (Giessen, Image series)
* Denise Trump B.A. (Cologne, Office)
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
<br />
* Dipl.-Inform. Jörg Koch (Cologne, IT)
* Dr. Bettina Pfleging (Cologne, Social Media Marketing, "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Dipl.-Bibl. Jens Wille (Cologne, IT)
</div>

<div style="text-align: justify; width: 550px;" class="clear-float">
<br />
<br />
<blockquote><h3>*Former*</h3></blockquote>

* Kerstin Albrecht M.A. (Dessau, Design)
* Dipl.-Phys. Lars Bähren (Cologne, IT)
* Sebastian Beßler (Cologne, IT)
* Thomas Bodo Block (Cologne, IT)
* Dr. Stefan Brenne (Giessen, Archaeology » currently: "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Ben Burkhard (Cologne, IT)
* Rebeca Ehses (Cologne, Office)
* Arne Eilermann (Cologne, IT)
* PD Dr. Norbert Eschbach (Giessen, Archaeology » currently: "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Dr. Meta Friese (Cologne, Office)
* Dr. Reinahrd Greulich (Köthen, IT)
* Prof. Dr. Dorothee Haffner (Berlin, Art History » currently: "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Prof. Rochus Hartmann (Dessau, Design)
* Georg Hohmann (Cologne, Project coordination)
* Julia Iwanowa M.A. (Berlin, IT)
* Prof. Tina Kindel (Dessau, Design)
* Ansgar Lorenz (Cologne, Office)
* Gerd Mörsch M.A. (Cologne, Office)
* Dipl.-Bibl. Thomas Müller (Cologne, IT)
* Dr. Jürgen Nemitz (Cologne/Marburg, IT)
* Johanna Neumann (Cologne, IT)
* Astrid Puckett (Giessen, Image series)
* PD Dr. Sigrid Ruby (Giessen, Art History » currently: "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Claudia Rust M.A. (Giessen, Office)
* Sabine Scheele M.A. (Giessen, Webdesign » currently: "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Dipl. Des. Dirk Schuster (Dessau, Design)
* Prof. Dr. Holger Simon (Cologne, Project management » currently: "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Prof. Dr. Manfred Thaller (Cologne, Historic-cultural scientific information processing)
* Dr. Ute Verstegen (Cologne, Project coordination » currently: "Executive Board":<%=r 'about/association/executive-board' %>)
* Katja Vierk (Cologne, Office)
* Dipl.-Bibl. Jens Wille (Cologne, IT)
</div>

