--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "B\xC3\xBCste der Nofretete, Ausschnitt, 1334-1351, 50 cm hoch, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin "
- "Statue der Venus mit einem Delphin an ihrer linken Seite, Ausschnitt, Tunis; RUDI, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\xC3\xA4t Erlangen-N\xC3\xBCrnberg, Lehrstuhl f\xC3\xBCr Christliche Arch\xC3\xA4ologie und Kunstgeschichte, Friedrich-Alexander-Universit\xC3\xA4t Erlangen-N\xC3\xBCrnberg "
- "Venus von Willendorf, Ausschnitt, 11,1 cm hoch, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin "
- "Leonardo da Vinci. Mona Lisa, Ausschnitt, 1503-1507, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 77 x 53 cm, Paris; Diathek online, Universit\xC3\xA4t Trier, Fach Kunstgeschichte "
- "Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres. La Grande Odalisque, Ausschnitt, 1814, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Paris; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen "
- "Frida Kahlo. Die zwei Fridas, Ausschnitt, 1939, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Mexiko; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte "
- "Edward Steichen. Greta Garbo, Ausschnitt, 1928, Fotografie, New York; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte "
- "Sandro Boticelli. Portr\xC3\xA4t der Simonetta Vespucci, Ausschnitt, um 1476-80, Berlin; Virtuelle Diathek, Universit\xC3\xA4t Hamburg, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar"
title: Beauty
author: Bettina Pfleging
subtitle: "Forms, Ideas, Images "
repeat: "1 3 5 "
date: 2014/08/12
teaser: What is beauty? Over the centuries different cultures give a variety of answers.
collection: 40088
---
What is beauty? Over the centuries different cultures give a variety of
answers. Artists present beauty in pictures. They try to capture beauty
and pass it on. They show aspects of harmony, elegance, purity or
aspects of compassion and seduction.
The exhibition in Oberhausen shows around 150 reproductions from the
collective visual memory of mankind and allows visitors to discover and
compare the beautiful aspects. Combined with the installation "320 °
light" of the Bremen artist group Urban Screen, tailored to the unique
beauty of the Gasometer.

"*„The Appearance of Beauty“*(exhibition)":http://www.gasometer.de/en/exhibitions/current-exhibition 
11 April to 30 December2014, Gasometer Oberhausen
