--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Ein Paar Schuhe, \xC3\x84gypten, zw. 332 und 313 v. Chr., Leder, Kork, 0,22 kg, \xC3\x84gyptisches Museum und Papyrussammlung, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin "
- "Vinzent van Gogh: Ein Paar Schuhe (Detail), 1886, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 37,5 x 45 cm, Amsterdam, \xC3\xB6ffentliche Sammlung, Rijksmuseum; EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Bern "
- "Lucian Bernhard: Stiller Schuhe (Detail), 1908, Werbeplakat, ohne Ma\xC3\x9Fangaben, Essen, Folkwang-Museum; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Dresden "
- "Wladimir Lebedew: Stillleben mit Stiefel (Detail), 1920, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 107 x 77 cm, St. Petersburg, Russisches Museum; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunsthistorisches Institut, M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Walker Evans: Floyd Burrougs` Working Shoes (Detail), 1936, Fotografie, Silbergelatine, Hale County, Alabama; Datenbank Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
- "Richard Avedon: Schuh, Design von Perugia, Place de Trocad\xC3\xA9ro, Paris (Detail), 1948, Fotografie, mehrere Aufbewahrungsorte; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
- "Helmut Newton: Walter Steiger, Monte Carlo (Detail), 1983, Fotografie, mehrere Aufbewahrungsorte; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
- "Peter Fischli / David Weiss: Flirt, Liebe. Etc. (Detail), aus der Serie: Equilibre, 1984, Fotografie, mehrere Standorte; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin "
title: Shoes
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
subtitle: A cultural good
date: 2012/01/02
teaser: There are shoes as a motif especially in fashion photography, but in free art as well.
collection: 29765
---
There are shoes as a motif especially in fashion photography, but in free art as well. The installation „Madison Avenue“ (1962) by Arman, here shown in the big picture, makes You literally hear the tip tap of rich ladies walking down the New York avenue.
Our first steps in the new Year may lead us to an exhibition dealing with the cultural history of shoes. The exhibits range from documents of the shoemakers craft and shoe-fashion from different countries and eras to poster advertising and artistic photography.  

*"Auf Schritt und Tritt. Schuhgeschichte(n): Handwerk - Mode – Kultobjekt":http://langenfeld.active-city.net/city_info/webaccessibility/index.cfm?region_id=138&waid=235&item_id=0&link_id=213672045&fsize=1&contrast=0, 13. November 2011 - 5. Februar 2012, Kulturelles Forum Langenfeld*
