--- 
descriptions: 
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum, Amsterdam, Ansicht; Architekturmuseum, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, Treppenhaus; Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, Innenansicht eines gro\xC3\x9Fen Raumes; Architekturmuseum, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, Ausstellungsraum mit Renaissance-M\xC3\xB6beln und Gem\xC3\xA4lden; Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, Innenansicht eines gro\xC3\x9Fen Raumes; Architekturmuseum, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, Vorhalle zum Raum mit der \xE2\x80\x9ENachtwache\xE2\x80\x9C; Architekturmuseum, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, Eingang zum Raum mit der \xC2\xBBNachtwache\xC2\xAB von Rembrandt; Architekturmuseum, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "P. J. H. Cuypers: Rijksmuseum Amsterdam, Innenansicht des Raumes mit der \xC2\xBBNachtwache\xC2\xAB von Rembrandt; Architekturmuseum, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
layout: series
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
title: The Rijksmuseum Amsterdam
subtitle: 
date: 2013/04/26
repeat: 1 3 5
teaser: The Rikjsmuseum at Amsterdam, created by Pierre Cuypers and opened in 1885, is now reopened after 10 years of renovation.
collection: 36505
---
The Rikjsmuseum at Amsterdam, created by Pierre Cuypers and opened in 1885, is now reopened after 10 years of renovation. The building was completely gutted and reconstructed, based on the original design of Cuypers, but with new Elements. The installation of the exhibits combines paintings, sculptures and applied arts, to present a comprehensive image of the times.

*"Rijksmuseum Amsterdam":https://www.rijksmuseum.nl/en/renovation*
