--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Roman Anton Boos. Kaiser Ludwig der Bayer, Ausschnitt, 1765-1766, Skulptur, F\xC3\xBCrstenfeldbruck; DadaWeb, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln"
- "Karl Hermann. K\xC3\xB6nig Ludwig der Bayer begr\xC3\xBC\xC3\x9Ft seinen gefangenen Gegenk\xC3\xB6nig Friedrich den Sch\xC3\xB6nen nach der Schlacht von Ampfing, Ausschnitt, 1827-1829, Wandmalerei, M\xC3\xBCnchen; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Wilhelm Lindenschmit d.\xC3\x84. R\xC3\xA9conciliation du roi Louis IV de Bavi\xC3\xA8re (Ludwig der Bayer) et de Fr\xC3\xA9d\xC3\xA9ric (Duc d'Autriche, Friedrich der Sch\xC3\xB6ne), Extrait du tableau: \"Histoire des \"Schyren\" (Wittelsbacher), 1833 \xE2\x80\x93 1837, Hohenschwangau; Iconoth\xC3\xA8que, Universit\xC3\xA9 de Gen\xC3\xA8ve"
- "Vedute von Rom auf der \"bolla d'oro\" f\xC3\xBCr Ludwig den Bayern (1282-1347), Medaille, 1320-1328, M\xC3\xBCnchen; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "Regensburger Dom, Schnitt nach Osten durch das 2. Joch von Osten des Hauptchores, Bauplan, 1273-1487, Regensburg; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Hans Krumpper. Grabmal Kaiser Ludwigs des Bayern, Ausschnitt, 1618-1622, Skulptur, M\xC3\xBCnchen; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Hans Krumpper. Grabmal Kaiser Ludwigs des Bayern, Engelspaar mit dem Wappenschild Herzog Wilhemls IV. an der Nordwestecke des Kenotaphs, 1618-1622, Plastik, M\xC3\xBCnchen; Architektur und Bildk\xC3\xBCnste in Bayern. Materialsammlung zur Bayerischen Kunstgeschichte, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Hubert Gerhard, Carlo Pallago. Grabmal Kaiser Ludwigs des Bayern, Grabw\xC3\xA4chter an der Nordwestecke des Kenotaphs, Ausschnitt, 1597, Plastik, M\xC3\xBCnchen; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
author: Bettina Pfleging
title: "Louis the Bavarian "
subtitle: Seven Hundred Years' Anniversary of Coronation
repeat: 3 5 7
date: 2014/06/08
teaser: Between 1300 and 1350 Bavaria became the center in Europe...
collection: 40470
---
Between 1300 and 1350 Bavaria became the center in Europe with Louis, Duke of Bavaria, German king and Holy Roman Emperor. This year, his seven-hundred-year coronation anniversary will be celebrated. 
The exhibition of original objects and reconstructions in Regensburg takes place at three different locations: in the Minoritenkirche of the Historical Museum, the Diocesan Museum of St. Ulrich and the cloister. With the app of the exhibition visitors can follow the footsteps of the emperor in Regensburg and Bavaria. 

"*“Ludwig der Bayer. Wir sind Kaiser!”*(exhibition)":http://www.hdbg.de/ludwig-der-bayer/
16 May to 2 November 2014, Bayerische Landesausstellung in Regensburg

Another app, developed by students of the History Department of the University of Munich, enables the search for clues in Munich.

"*„Kaiser Ludwig in München“*(app)":http://www.kaiser-ludwig-in-muenchen.de/ (Web App)
