---
layout: series
title: Colours
subtitle: Between classification and sensual experience
author: Hendrikje Hüneke
date: 2010/11/17
descriptions:
- 'Itten, Johannes: Übung: Farbe-an-sich-Kontrast, o.O.; Diathek online, Technische Universität Dresden, Institut für Kunstgeschichte, Dresden'
- 'Hirschfeld-Mack, Ludwig: Farben-Dreieck, 1822/23, Collage aus Buntpapier auf Neuruppiner Bilderbogen, Bauhaus-Archiv, Berlin; Diathek online, Universität Trier, Fach Kunstgeschichte, Trier'
- 'Runge, Philipp Otto: Farbenkugel, 1809, Kupferstich/Aquatinta/Aquarell, 22,5 x 18,9 cm, o.O.; Digitale Diathek, Justus-Liebig-Universität, Institut für Kunstgeschichte, Gießen'
- 'Goethe, Johann Wolfgang: Zur Farbenlehre, Bd. 10, Tafel V (Ausschnitt), 1810; Datenbank EasyDB, Universität Bern, Institut für Kunstgeschichte, Bern'
- 'Goethe, Johann Wolfgang: Zur Farbenlehre, Bd. 10, Tafel II (Ausschnitt), 1810; Digitale Diathek, Justus-Liebig-Universität, Institut für Kunstgeschichte, Gießen'
- 'Goethe, Johann Wolfgang: Farbenkreis zur Symbolisierung des "menschlichen Geistes- und Seelenlebens", 1809, aquarellierte Tuschezeichnung, o.O.; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Kunsthistorisches Institut, München'
- 'Hayet, Louis: Farbenkreis, 1885, bemaltes Papier auf Karton, Ashmolean Museum, Oxford; Diathek online, Universität Trier, Fach Kunstgeschichte, Trier'
- 'Runge, Philipp Otto: Harmonietafel (Ausschnitt), o.O.; EasyDB, Universität Bern, Institut für Kunstgeschichte, Bern'
---
In the occasion of the 200th anniversary of the theory of colours by Goethe there were and are many exhibitions concerning colours, the history of sciences of colours and the phenomenon of colours in general. Colour-classifications made by artists, humanists and natural scientist are both scientifically valuable and an aesthetical experience, which becomes apparent in the exhibition “Farbe: Obsession und Spiel”.
An other exhibition in Winterthur is concentrating on the origin and creation of colours. The appendant publication is a sensual experience.

*Farbpigmente, Farbstoffe, Farbgeschichten, 12. Sept. 2010 – 2. Jan. 2011, Gewerbemuseum Winterthur*

*Farbe: Obsession und Spiel, verlängert bis 28. November, Gewerbemuseum Winterthur*
