--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Carl Spitzweg: Der arme Poet (Ausschnitt), 1839, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 36 x 45 cm, M\xC3\xBCnchen, Neue Pinakothek; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Max Liebermann: Atelier des K\xC3\xBCnstlers (Ausschnitt), 1902, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 68.5 x 82 cm, St. Gallen, Kunstmuseum; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Ernst Ludwig Kirchner: Akte im Atelier / Drei Modelle (Ausschnitt), 1912, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 80,6 x 70,5 cm, Wien, Leopold-Museum; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "Henri Matisse: Der K\xC3\xBCnstler und sein Modell. Das Atelier (Ausschnitt), um 1918/21, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 66 x 73 cm, New York, Sammlung Mr. & Mrs. Donald B. Marron; Digitale Diathek, Justus-Liebig-Universit\xC3\xA4t Gie\xC3\x9Fen, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Justus-Liebig-Universit\xC3\xA4t Gie\xC3\x9Fen"
- "Pablo Picasso: Ein Maler in seinem Atelier (Ausschnitt), 1928, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 46 x 55 cm, Privatsammlung; Mediathek, Heinrich-Heine-Universit\xC3\xA4t D\xC3\xBCsseldorf, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Heinrich-Heine-Universit\xC3\xA4t D\xC3\xBCsseldorf"
- "Ren\xC3\xA9 Magritte: So lebt der Mensch (Ausschnitt), 1933, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 100 x 81 cm, Washington, National Gallery of Art; DadaWeb, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln"
- "Max Beckmann: Atelier (Ausschnitt), 1934, Aquarell, Privatsammlung; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Gerhard Richter: Atelier (Ausschnitt), 1985, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 3 Tafeln je 260 x 200 cm, Berlin, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin, Neue Nationalgalerie; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
title: The studio
subtitle: Studio-images from Romanticism to contemporary Art
repeat: 5 3 1
date: 2012/12/22
teaser: Images of the studio can be revealing about the artist and his self-perception.
collection: 35131
---
Images of the studio can be revealing about the artist and his self-perception. An exhibition at the Staatsgalerie Stuttgart is presenting pictures of studios from the 19th to the 21st century, showing different forms of self-representation. "The poor poet" by Spitzweg deals with the cliché of the poor artist: Nothing can stop his creative power, even in adverse conditions. The studiopainting by Beckmann seems to based on the idea of creative chaos. While Liebermanns work shows a representative Salon with correctly dressed women, Kirchner and Matisse were painting their nude models in cosy atmosphere.

*"The Studio.Workshop and Myth. From Spitzweg to Picasso, from Giacometti to Naumann":http://www.staatsgalerie.de/index_e.php, Oct 27 to Feb 10 2013, Staatsgalerie Stuttgart*
