--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Nam June Paik. TV Buddha, Ausschnitt, 1970, Installation, Amsterdam; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t Berlin"
- "George Maciunas. Fluxkit (S\xC3\xA9lection repr\xC3\xA9sentative d'objets fluxus de diff\xC3\xA9rents artistes, assembl\xC3\xA9s et commercialis\xC3\xA9s par George Maciunas), 1964, Objekt; Iconoth\xC3\xA8que, Universit\xC3\xA9 de Gen\xC3\xA8ve"
- "Nam June Paik. TV-Garden, 1977, Installation, Chicago; Digitale Diathek, Justus-Liebig-Universit\xC3\xA4t Gie\xC3\x9Fen, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Justus-Liebig-Universit\xC3\xA4t Gie\xC3\x9Fen"
- "George Maciunas. Macunias dirigiert Brechts \xE2\x80\x9EDrip Music\xE2\x80\x9C in der Staatlichen Kunstakademie D\xC3\xBCsseldorf, 1963, Aktion; DILPS, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum, Kunstgeschichtliches Institut, Ruhr-Universit\xC3\xA4t Bochum"
- "Caspar David Friedrich. Mondaufgang am Meer, Ausschnitt, 1822, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Caspar David Friedrich. Der Greifswalder Hafen, Ausschnitt, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Philipp Otto Runge. Landschaft an der Peene, Ausschnitt, Zeichnung, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Philipp Otto Runge. Quelle und Dichter, Ausschnitt, 1805, Zeichnung, Hamburg; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
author: Bettina Pfleging
title: Fluxus and Romantics
subtitle: Desire for social change
repeat: 1 2 4
date: 2014/05/11
teaser: The Fluxus movement of the 1960s and 1970s...
collection: 40326
---
The Fluxus movement of the 1960s and 1970s such as Dadaism as art direction declines to accept the conventional art and its roots in civil society. The participating artists are experimenting with actions, such as installations, musical compositions or happenings to develop new ideas of a free life. The German Romantic artists of the 19th century were also driven by the desire to break away from the classical models and to change one's social life. 
The exhibition in Schwerin shows this influence of the historical Romanticists in the updated and new concept of the American Fluxus movement. Works of the Romantic painter Caspar David Friedrich, Kersting Georg and Philipp Otto Runge are arranged to works of American Fluxus artist.

"*„FLUXUS made in USA“*(exhibition)":http://www.museum-schwerin.com/exhibitions-2/exhibitions-2014/fluxus-made-in-usa/
14 March until 9 June 2014, Gallery of Old & New Masters, Schwerin
