--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Aelbert Cuyp. Ansicht von Njmegen, Ausschnitt, 1652/1654, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 48,9 x 73,7 cm, Indianapolis; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Jan van Goyen. Ansicht von  Arnheim, Ausschnitt, 1646, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Salomon van Ruysdael. Ansicht von Rhenen bei Sonnenuntergang, Ausschnitt, 1660, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand; Diathek online, Universit\xC3\xA4t Trier, Fach Kunstgeschichte"
- "Joris van der Haagen. Ansicht des Swanenturm in Kleve, Ausschnitt, 1660, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 90 x 112 cm, Boston; Bild & Kunst Eichst\xC3\xA4tt, Katholische Universit\xC3\xA4t Eichst\xC3\xA4tt-Ingolstadt, Lehrstuhl f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Walter Ophey. Rheinlandschaft in Nebel mit Sonne, Ausschnitt, 1909, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, D\xC3\xBCsseldorf; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Heinrich Nauen. Garben auf dem Feld, Ausschnitt, Aquarell, 1911; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Gerhard Richter. Landschaft bei Hubbelrath, Ausschnitt, 1969, \xC3\x96l auf Leinwand, 100 x 140 cm, Aachen; DadaWeb, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Universit\xC3\xA4t zu K\xC3\xB6ln"
- "Andreas Gursky. Rhein, Ausschnitt, 1996, Fotografie; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
title: "Flat Landscapes "
author: Bettina Pfleging
subtitle: Distant Looks
repeat: 1 2 3
date: 2014/07/06
teaser: Since the 17th century Dutch landscape paintings...
collection: 40675
---
Since the 17th century Dutch landscape paintings can be characterized by wide sky and flat horizons. To this day, the artists were fascinated by the Lower Rhine region. 
Some 120 paintings, drawings, prints and photographs by 62 artists show the characteristics of this landscape in an exhibition. So you make a journey through time in the museum from the 17th century until today. This journey can be continued outside the museum, with app and bike.

"*„The sky so wide. Landscapes along the Rhine between Düsseldorf and Rhenen“*(exhibition)":http://www.moyland.de/en/exhibitions/the-sky-so-wide.html
18 May to 24 August 2014, Museum Schloss Moyland
