--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- Hoedje, Hat, Ausschnitt, 1860-1880, 15 x 24 x 34,5 cm, Amsterdam; Amsterdam Museum, Stadtmuseum Amsterdam
- "Albouy, Bruy\xC3\xA8re. Turbane, Ausschnitt, 1943/1945, Kyoto; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Marthe Schiel. H\xC3\xBCte, Ausschnitt, 1930/1939, Kyoto; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
- "Erwin Blumenfeld. Zweispitz-H\xC3\xBCte von Schiaparelli, Ausschnitt, 1938, Fotografie; Diathek online, Technische Universit\xC3\xA4t Dresden, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Daniel Schlier. Maternit\xC3\xA9 avec Chapeau, Ausschnitt, 1999, 148 x 116 cm; EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte"
- "Pablo Picasso. Sitzende mit Fisch-Hut, Ausschnitt, 1942, Amsterdam; HeidICON - Europ\xC3\xA4ische Kunstgeschichte, Ruprecht-Karls-Universit\xC3\xA4t Heidelberg, Universit\xC3\xA4tsbibliothek, Ruprecht-Karls-Universit\xC3\xA4t Heidelberg"
- "Max Ernst. C\xC2\xB4est le chapeau qui fait l\xC2\xB4homme, Ausschnitt, 1920, New York; Diathek online, Universit\xC3\xA4t Trier, Fach Kunstgeschichte"
- "Andr\xC3\xA8 Adolphe Eugen\xC3\xA9 Disd\xC3\xA9ri. Prinz von Wales, Ausschnitt, 1857, Fotografie; ArteMIS, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen, Kunsthistorisches Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xC3\xA4t M\xC3\xBCnchen"
title: "Hats, Hoedjes, H\xC3\xBCte"
author: Bettina Pfleging
subtitle: Chapeau!
repeat: 1 4 8
date: 2014/07/13
teaser: Until the 1960s in Europe the hat was a natural part of clothing...
collection: 40662
---
Until the 1960s in Europe the hat was a natural part of clothing. Not only in its capacity to protect against cold, wet or solar radiation, but also as an important accessory, a status symbol. Even today in the English Ascot during the horse racing it is expected wearing a hat. 
Fashionable seen the hat has undergone many developments and also adopted highly imaginative shapes.
In the exhibition there are not only the change of hat fashion over the years in focus, but also the history of social etiquette and decorum of the “Wearing a hat”. So the gesture of removing the hat when greeting goes back at least as an homage to the early 13th century. And today we say "Hats off!" as a sign of appreciation.

"*„Chapeau! 150 Jahre Hutgeschichte(n)“*(exhibition)":http://www.industriemuseum.lvr.de/de/ratingen/ausstellungen_5/chapeau/chapeau_1.html
June 15, 2014 to 19th April 2015, LVR-Industriemuseum, Textilfabrik Cromford Ratingen
