--- 
layout: series
descriptions: 
- "Gro\xC3\x9Fer Vogel, Senufo, Ausschnitt, Plastik/Holz, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Kpeliye'e Gesichtsmaske, Senufo, Elfenbeink\xC3\xBCste-Mali, 19. Jhdt., Z\xC3\xBCrich; Virtuelle Diathek, Universit\xC3\xA4t Hamburg, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar"
- "Maske der Senufo, Maskenaufsatz, Ausschnitt, 145 cm, Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Maske, Dan (Elfenbeink\xC3\xBCste oder Liberia), 24,5 cm, Paris; ArtICON, Justus-Liebig-Universit\xC3\xA4t Gie\xC3\x9Fen, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstp\xC3\xA4dagogik, Justus-Liebig-Universit\xC3\xA4t Gie\xC3\x9Fen"
- "Mblo Gesichtsmaske, Baule, Elfenbeink\xC3\xBCste, 19. Jhdt., 17,8 cm, New York; Virtuelle Diathek, Universit\xC3\xA4t Hamburg, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar"
- "Maske f\xC3\xBCr den Goli-Tanz, Baule, Elfenbeink\xC3\xBCste, Genf; Diathek online, Universit\xC3\xA4t Trier, Fach Kunstgeschichte"
- "M\xC3\xA4nnliche Figur, Baule, Elfenbeink\xC3\xBCste, Ausschnitt, 19. Jhdt. - fr\xC3\xBChes 20. Jhdt., 56,1 cm, Essen; Virtuelle Diathek, Universit\xC3\xA4t Hamburg, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar"
- "Stehendes Paar, Senufo, Elfenbeink\xC3\xBCste-Mali, Ausschnitt, 19. Jhdt. \xE2\x80\x93 fr\xC3\xBChes 20. Jhdt., 35,5 x 12,5 x 6 cm, Moskau; Virtuelle Diathek, Universit\xC3\xA4t Hamburg, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar"
title: Masks and Sculptures
author: Bettina Pfleging
subtitle: West African Art
repeat: 1 3 4
date: 2014/08/25
teaser: The artists of African art, the Baule, Dan and Senufo,...
collection: 41056
---
The artists of African art, the Baule, Dan and Senufo, show with their sculptures and masks works of remarkable beauty. 
The exhibition presents around 200 masterpieces of about 40 sculptors. It focuses on the personalities who produced the artworks. Although most of the artists’ names are unknown, it is possible to recognize individual artistic personalities in the African artwork.

"*„African Masters. Art from the Ivory Coast“*(exhibition)":http://www.bundeskunsthalle.de/en/exhibitions/african-masters.html
28 June to 5 October 2014, Bundeskunsthalle Bonn 
