--- 
descriptions: 
- "Witz, Konrad: Die K\xC3\xB6nigin von Saba vor Salomo (Detail), zw. 1425 und 1447, \xC3\x96l auf Eichenholz, 84,5 x 79 cm, Gem\xC3\xA4ldegalerie, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Witz, Konrad: Christus am Kreuz (Detail), 1444, \xC3\x96l auf Nussbaumholz/\xC3\xBCbertragen auf Leinwand, 34 x 26 cm,  Gem\xC3\xA4ldegalerie, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Witz, Konrad: Der Ratschluss der Erl\xC3\xB6sung (Detail), zw. 1444 und 1454, \xC3\x96l auf Tannenholz, Gem\xC3\xA4ldegalerie, Staatliche Museen zu Berlin; bpk - Bildportal der Kunstmuseen, Bildagentur f\xC3\xBCr Kunst, Kultur und Geschichte, Stiftung Preu\xC3\x9Fischer Kulturbesitz, Berlin"
- "Witz, Konrad: Der wunderbare Fischzug Petri (Detail), 1444, Tempera auf Holz, 132 x 154 cm, Mus\xC3\xA9e d'Art et d'Histoire, Genf; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin"
- "Witz, Konrad: Kardinal Francois de Mies, empfohlen durch den Hl. Petrus, vor der thronenden Madonna mit Kind (Detail), 1444, Tempera auf Holz, 132 x 154 cm, Mus\xC3\xA9e d'Art et d'Histoire, Genf; Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin"
- "Witz, Konrad: Sabothai und Benaja (Detail), um 1435, Tempera auf Holz, 102 x 78 cm, \xC3\x96ffentliche Kunstsammlung, Basel;  Imago, Humboldt-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Kunstgeschichtliches Seminar, Berlin"
- "Witz, Konrad: Synagoga (Detail), 1435, keine Angaben zu Material und Gr\xC3\xB6\xC3\x9Fe, \xC3\x96ffentliche Kunstsammlung, Basel; HeidICON - Europ\xC3\xA4ische Kunstgeschichte, Ruprecht-Karls-Universit\xC3\xA4t, Universit\xC3\xA4tsbibliothek, Heidelberg"
- "Witz, Konrad: Verk\xC3\xBCndigung (Detail), 1440, Tempera auf Tannenholz, 157 x 120 cm,  Germanisches Nationalmuseum, N\xC3\xBCrnberg; EasyDB, Universit\xC3\xA4t Bern, Institut f\xC3\xBCr Kunstgeschichte, Bern"
layout: series
author: "Hendrikje H\xC3\xBCneke"
title: Konrad Witz
subtitle: An artist of the 15th century
date: 2011/04/15
teaser: "The painter Konrad Witz, rediscovered after 1900, is described as one of the most radical innovators in the art of painting of the first half of the 15th century."
collection: 26109
---
The painter Konrad Witz, rediscovered after 1900, is described as one of the most radical innovators in the art of painting of the first half of the 15th century. An exhibition in Basel tries to fathom the artistically origin of his work of art as well as his influences to contemporarys. Altarpieces and mural paintings, created between 1434 and 1447, are fragmentary preserved. A familiarity with Flemish painting can be supposed, because of the exposure with light and shadow, reflections and spatial depth.
The main focus of the exhibition might be on the 9 restored altarpieces of the so called „Heilsspiegelaltar“.

*"Konrad Witz. Die einzigartige Ausstellung":http://www.kunstmuseumbasel.ch/en/exhibitions/current/konrad-witz/, 06. März – 03. Juli 2011, Kunstmuseum Basel* 
